.TH DICTEE-TRAY 1 "March 2025" "dictee 0.99" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
dictee-tray \- notification area icon for transcribe-daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dictee-tray
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dictee-tray
displays a notification area (system tray) icon that shows the status of
.BR transcribe\-daemon (1)
and provides quick actions via a context menu.
.PP
The icon adapts to the desktop theme (light or dark) using 4 SVG icons:
.BR parakeet-active ", " parakeet-active-dark ", "
.BR parakeet-inactive ", " parakeet-inactive-dark .
Theme detection is automatic (KDE via kreadconfig6, GNOME via color-scheme).
.PP
The daemon status is polled every 3 seconds by checking the socket
.I /tmp/transcribe.sock
and verifying the process via
.BR pgrep (1).
.SH INDICATOR BACKENDS
.B dictee-tray
tries indicator backends in this order:
.TP
1.
.B AyatanaAppIndicator3
(Ubuntu, KDE Plasma)
.TP
2.
.B AppIndicator3
.TP
3.
.B Gtk.StatusIcon
(fallback)
.SH CONTEXT MENU
.TP
\(bu
.B Status
\(em shows whether the daemon is active or stopped.
.TP
\(bu
.B Start / Stop daemon
\(em controls
.BR transcribe\-daemon (1)
via
.BR systemctl (1)
(user service), or direct process management if systemd is unavailable.
.TP
\(bu
.B Voice dictation
\(em launches
.BR dictee (1).
.TP
\(bu
.B Dictation + Translation
\(em launches
.B dictee \-\-translate
.TP
\(bu
.B Configuration
\(em opens
.BR dictee\-setup (1).
.TP
\(bu
.B Quit icon
\(em exits the tray application.
.SH SYSTEMD
To auto-start the tray icon at login:
.PP
.RS
systemctl \-\-user enable \-\-now dictee\-tray
.RE
.PP
The service unit is
.IR dictee\-tray.service .
.SH ICONS
SVG icons are installed in:
.PP
.RS
/usr/share/icons/hicolor/scalable/apps/
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR transcribe\-daemon (1),
.BR dictee (1),
.BR dictee\-setup (1)
.SH AUTHOR
rcspam <rcspams@gmail.com>
