.TH DICTEE-SETUP 1 "March 2025" "dictee 0.3.2" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
dictee-setup \- graphical configuration for voice dictation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dictee-setup
.br
.B dictee \-\-setup
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dictee-setup
is a GTK3 graphical interface for configuring
.BR dictee (1).
It allows setting up:
.TP
\(bu
.B Keyboard shortcut
\(em capture a key combination and register it as a global shortcut
for
.BR dictee (1).
Automatic registration is supported on KDE Plasma (via kwriteconfig6)
and GNOME/Unity/Cinnamon (via gsettings). Other desktop environments
display instructions for manual configuration.
.TP
\(bu
.B Translation
\(em enable or disable translation, choose the backend
.RB ( trans
or
.BR ollama ),
and select source and target languages from 13 supported languages.
.TP
\(bu
.B Animation
\(em check if
.B animation-speech
is installed, and optionally download and install it from GitHub releases
(requires
.BR gh (1)).
.PP
All settings are saved to
.IR ~/.config/dictee.conf ,
a shell-sourceable file read by
.BR dictee (1)
at startup. Command-line options to dictee override these settings.
.SH DESKTOP ENVIRONMENT SUPPORT
.TP
.B KDE Plasma
Creates a
.I dictee.desktop
file in
.IR ~/.local/share/applications/
and registers the shortcut via
.BR kwriteconfig6 (1).
Detects conflicts with existing global shortcuts.
.TP
.B GNOME / Unity / Cinnamon
Registers a custom keybinding via
.BR gsettings (1).
.TP
.B Other
Displays instructions for manual shortcut configuration.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/dictee.conf
Configuration file. Contains:
.BR DICTEE_TRANSLATE ,
.BR DICTEE_TRANSLATE_BACKEND ,
.BR DICTEE_LANG_SOURCE ,
.BR DICTEE_LANG_TARGET .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dictee (1),
.BR dictee\-tray (1)
.SH AUTHOR
rcspam <rcspams@gmail.com>
