.TH DICTEE 1 "April 2026" "dictee 1.3.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
dictee \- push-to-talk voice dictation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dictee
.RB [ \-\-translate ]
.RB [ \-\-ollama ]
.br
.B dictee \-\-cancel
.br
.B dictee \-\-setup
.br
.B dictee \-\-help
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dictee
is a push-to-talk dictation script designed to be bound to a keyboard shortcut.
It works as a toggle:
.PP
.B First call:
starts recording from the microphone, mutes system audio output (anti-feedback),
auto-unmutes the microphone if muted, and displays an optional animation.
.PP
.B Second call:
stops recording, restores audio state, transcribes the recording via
.BR transcribe\-daemon (1),
and types the result into the focused application using
.BR dotool (1).
The transcribed text is also copied to the clipboard via
.BR wl\-copy (1).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-translate
Enable translation after transcription. The source text is transcribed, then translated
from the source language to the target language before being typed.
.TP
.B \-\-ollama
Use ollama with the translategemma model for translation instead of the default
translate-shell backend. Implies local-only translation. The model is downloaded
automatically on first use.
.TP
.B \-\-cancel
Cancel a recording in progress. Stops the microphone, the animation, and restores
audio state without transcribing.
.TP
.B \-\-setup
Open the graphical configuration interface. See
.BR dictee\-setup (1).
.TP
.BR \-\-help ", " \-h
Display a brief usage summary and exit.
.SH CONFIGURATION
.B dictee
reads its configuration from
.IR ~/.config/dictee.conf ,
a shell-sourceable file generated by
.BR dictee\-setup (1).
.PP
Command-line options override configuration file values.
.PP
Supported variables:
.TP
.B DICTEE_TRANSLATE
Enable translation by default
.RI ( true " or " false ).
.TP
.B DICTEE_TRANSLATE_BACKEND
Translation backend:
.B trans
(translate-shell, default) or
.B ollama
(translategemma, local).
.TP
.B DICTEE_LANG_SOURCE
Source language code (default: system locale, e.g.
.IR fr ).
.TP
.B DICTEE_LANG_TARGET
Target language code (default:
.IR en ).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B DICTEE_LANG_SOURCE
Source language for translation (overridden by config file).
.TP
.B DICTEE_LANG_TARGET
Target language for translation (overridden by config file).
.TP
.B DICTEE_TRANSLATE
Set to
.B true
to enable translation by default.
.TP
.B DICTEE_TRANSLATE_BACKEND
Translation backend:
.B trans
or
.BR ollama .
.SH POST-PROCESSING
.B dictee
applies French voice command substitutions to the transcribed text:
.TP
\(bu
\(lqpoint \(`a la ligne\(rq is replaced by a period followed by a newline.
.TP
\(bu
\(lqtrois petits points\(rq is replaced by an ellipsis (\.\.\.).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/dictee.conf
Configuration file (generated by
.BR dictee\-setup (1)).
.TP
.I ~/.cache/tmp_recording_dictee.mp3
Temporary recording file.
.TP
.I /tmp/recording_dictee_pid
PID of the active pw-record process (used as toggle lock).
.TP
.I /tmp/notify_dictee
Notification ID for persistent notification replacement.
.TP
.I /tmp/mut_dictee
Stores original microphone mute state for restoration.
.TP
.I /tmp/dictee_translate
Flag file indicating translation mode is active.
.TP
.I /tmp/translate_dictee_backend
Stores the translation backend chosen at recording start.
.SH DEPENDENCIES
.TP
.B transcribe-daemon
Must be running (via systemd or manually). See
.BR transcribe\-daemon (1).
.TP
.B dotool
For typing the transcribed text.
.TP
.B pw-record
For audio recording (PipeWire).
.TP
.B pactl
For muting/unmuting audio (PulseAudio utilities).
.TP
.B notify-send
For desktop notifications (libnotify).
.PP
.B Optional:
.TP
.B wl-clipboard
For copying text to the Wayland clipboard (bonus, not required).
.TP
.B animation-speech-ctl
Displays a visual animation during recording and allows cancellation via Escape.
The animation is launched with
.B animation\-speech\-ctl launch \-\-on\-escape
and does not require manual PID management.
.TP
.B translate-shell
Required when using the
.B trans
translation backend (default).
.TP
.B ollama
Required when using the
.B ollama
translation backend.
.SH SETUP
.TP
1. Enable the transcription daemon:
.RS
systemctl \-\-user enable \-\-now dictee
.RE
.TP
2. Enable dotool daemon:
.RS
systemctl \-\-user enable \-\-now dotoold
.RE
.TP
3. Bind
.B /usr/bin/dictee
to a keyboard shortcut in your desktop environment, or use
.B dictee \-\-setup
to configure it automatically (KDE Plasma / GNOME).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR transcribe\-daemon (1),
.BR transcribe\-client (1),
.BR dictee\-setup (1),
.BR dictee\-tray (1),
.BR dotool (1),
.BR pw\-record (1)
.SH AUTHOR
rcspam <rcspams@gmail.com>
