.TH DICTEE-POSTPROCESS 1 "April 2026" "dictee 1.3.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
dictee-postprocess \- text post-processing filter for dictee
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dictee-postprocess
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dictee-postprocess
is a text filter that applies the post-processing pipeline to transcribed text. It reads from standard input and writes the transformed text to standard output.
.PP
The pipeline includes (in order): custom regex rules, dictionary replacements, fuzzy dictionary matching, number conversion (text2num), French elisions, auto-capitalization, and non-breaking space typography.
.PP
Each step can be individually enabled or disabled in
.IR ~/.config/dictee.conf .
.PP
This command is typically called by
.BR dictee (1)
as part of the transcription pipeline, not directly by the user.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Post-processing options in
.IR ~/.config/dictee.conf :
.TP
.B DICTEE_POSTPROCESS=true|false
Enable or disable the entire pipeline.
.TP
.B DICTEE_PP_RULES=true|false
Enable custom regex rules.
.TP
.B DICTEE_PP_DICTIONARY=true|false
Enable dictionary replacements.
.TP
.B DICTEE_PP_TEXT2NUM=true|false
Enable number conversion.
.TP
.B DICTEE_PP_ELISIONS=true|false
Enable French elision rules.
.TP
.B DICTEE_PP_CAPITALIZATION=true|false
Enable auto-capitalization.
.TP
.B DICTEE_PP_TYPOGRAPHY=true|false
Enable non-breaking space insertion.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/dictee/rules.conf
User rules file.
.TP
.I ~/.config/dictee/dictionary.conf
User dictionary file.
.TP
.I /usr/share/dictee/rules.conf.default
Default rules.
.TP
.I /usr/share/dictee/dictionary.conf.default
Default dictionary.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dictee (1),
.BR dictee-test-rules (1),
.BR dictee-setup (1)
