.TH TRANSCRIBE-DAEMON 1 "April 2026" "dictee 1.3.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
transcribe-daemon \- speech recognition daemon with preloaded model
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B transcribe-daemon
.RI [ model_dir ]
.RI [ --canary ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B transcribe-daemon
starts a daemon that keeps an ASR model loaded in memory,
allowing fast repeated transcriptions via
.BR transcribe-client (1).
.PP
The daemon listens on a Unix socket at $XDG_RUNTIME_DIR/transcribe.sock
(or /tmp/transcribe-UID.sock as fallback).
.PP
Supports two backends: Parakeet TDT (default) and Canary AED (with --canary flag).
The backend can also be selected via the DICTEE_ASR_BACKEND environment variable.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I model_dir
Path to model directory (default: /usr/share/dictee/tdt or /canary)
.TP
.B --canary
Use Canary AED backend instead of Parakeet TDT. Canary supports 25 languages
and built-in translation.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B DICTEE_ASR_BACKEND
Set to "canary" to use Canary backend (alternative to --canary flag).
.TP
.B DICTEE_LANG_SOURCE
Source language code (default: fr).
.TP
.B DICTEE_DEBUG
Set to "true" to enable debug logging.
.SH SYSTEMD
Four mutually exclusive services:
.PP
.RS
systemctl --user enable --now dictee          # Parakeet
.br
systemctl --user enable --now dictee-canary   # Canary
.br
systemctl --user enable --now dictee-vosk     # Vosk
.br
systemctl --user enable --now dictee-whisper  # Whisper
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR transcribe-client (1),
.BR transcribe (1),
.BR dictee (1)
.SH AUTHOR
rcspam <rcspams@gmail.com>
