.TH TRANSCRIBE-CLIENT 1 "April 2026" "dictee 1.3.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
transcribe-client \- client for transcribe-daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B transcribe-client
.RI [ audio_file ]
.br
.I command
.B |
.B transcribe-client
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B transcribe-client
sends audio to
.BR transcribe\-daemon (1)
for fast transcription.
.PP
Accepts any audio format (MP3, OGG, FLAC, OPUS, etc.) via automatic
.BR ffmpeg (1)
conversion to WAV 16kHz mono. File paths support
.BR ~ ", " ./ ", and " ../
resolution.
.PP
There are three input modes:
.TP
.B File
Pass an audio file as argument. Non-WAV files are automatically converted
via ffmpeg.
.TP
.B Stdin
Pipe audio data into standard input. ffmpeg auto-detects the format
from stream headers.
.TP
.B Microphone
Without arguments and with stdin connected to a terminal, records from
the default microphone (PipeWire \(-> PulseAudio \(-> ALSA fallback).
If the microphone is muted, it is automatically unmuted for recording
and re-muted afterwards.
.RS
.PP
Without
.BR TRANSCRIBE_DURATION ,
recording continues until Enter is pressed.
With
.BR TRANSCRIBE_DURATION ,
recording stops after the specified number of seconds.
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I audio_file
Path to an audio file (optional). Supports any format convertible by ffmpeg.
.TP
.BR \-\-help ", " \-h
Display a brief usage summary and exit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B TRANSCRIBE_DURATION
Recording duration in seconds. Without this variable, recording runs until
Enter is pressed.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Transcribe a WAV file:
.B transcribe-client recording.wav
.TP
Transcribe an MP3 file (auto-converted):
.B transcribe-client interview.mp3
.TP
Transcribe from stdin:
.B cat audio.ogg | transcribe-client
.TP
Record from microphone (stop with Enter):
.B transcribe-client
.TP
Record for 10 seconds:
.B TRANSCRIBE_DURATION=10 transcribe-client
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR transcribe\-daemon (1),
.BR dictee (1),
.BR ffmpeg (1)
.SH AUTHOR
rcspam <rcspams@gmail.com>
