.TH TRANSCRIBE-STREAM-DIARIZE 1 "March 2025" "dictee 0.3.2" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
transcribe-stream-diarize \- streaming transcription with speaker identification (English)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B transcribe-stream-diarize
.RI [ audio_file ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B transcribe-stream-diarize
performs streaming transcription with real-time output and speaker identification.
Uses Nemotron for streaming transcription and Sortformer for diarization.
.PP
.B Note:
This command supports English only (Nemotron limitation).
For multilingual support, use
.BR transcribe\-diarize (1).
.PP
Accepts any audio format (MP3, OGG, FLAC, OPUS, etc.) via automatic
.BR ffmpeg (1)
conversion to WAV 16kHz mono.
File paths support
.BR ~ ", " ./ ", and " ../
resolution.
.PP
When recording from the microphone, if the microphone is muted it is automatically
unmuted for recording and re-muted afterwards.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I audio_file
Path to audio file. If not provided, records from microphone until Ctrl+C.
Any format supported by ffmpeg is accepted.
.TP
.BR \-\-help ", " \-h
Display a brief usage summary and exit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B NEMOTRON_DIR
Path to Nemotron model (default: /usr/share/dictee/nemotron).
.TP
.B SORTFORMER_DIR
Path to Sortformer model (default: /usr/share/dictee/sortformer).
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
From file:
.B transcribe-stream-diarize meeting.wav
.TP
From microphone:
.B transcribe-stream-diarize
.br
(Press Ctrl+C to stop recording)
.SH BUILD
This binary requires the
.B sortformer
Cargo feature:
.PP
.RS
cargo build \-\-release \-\-features sortformer
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR transcribe\-diarize (1),
.BR transcribe (1),
.BR ffmpeg (1)
.SH AUTHOR
rcspam <rcspams@gmail.com>
